Ryogi.
What are you doing, Shikadai?!
Those two are about
to get away!
Yeah, I'm aware of that!
[laughing]
Now that we're on this train,
it's a direct line to
the other side of the border.
(BORUTO)
I wouldn't be so sure!
Checkmate.
Shikadai!
Ryogi, would you just snap
out of it already?!
Damn.
Seriously?
You really don't
give up easily.
Did you do this?
You put these stupid ideas
into his head!
That doesn't even
matter anymore.
Do you think you can save
desperate people
with nothing more than
your childishly naive ideals?
The reality of the situation
isn't that simple.
And now, you know
how things work.
So accept the truth,
be a good kid
and go back home!
You think that lame speech
is gonna change our minds?
Lame?
I've seen your true character
with my own eyes.
You're made of nothing
but filthy lies!
‐ [smirking]
‐ [grunting]
Ryogi...
Why do you go so far
to protect this guy?
I'd go as far as I have to.
[lightly grunting]
Because this man
once saved my life!
Do you want to
come with me?
[breathy inhale]
Huh?
Whaddya say?
[sniffling]
Mm.
I understand now.
But that's still no reason
to become a thief!
Is this really the kind of
life you had hoped for?!
Life I hoped for?
What a question!
So typical of the people
in this village;
your lives have been so easy!
In this world,
you just have to accept
the role that you were
cast to play...
It's just another way
of living!
Know what?
I think you're straining
to fit into a mold
that's too tight.
All those hours
we spent playing shogi...
you were lying
the whole time?!
That wasn't real.
It was just an act,
so I could get close to you
and gain your trust.
Why's it so hard for you
to get that?
[wincing in pain]
My head.
What's wrong, Ryogi?!
Are you okay?
Shut up!
I don't want to
talk to you anymore!
Ryogi!
Use it now!
Yes.
Ice Style: Crystal Wall!
[gasping]
What?!
Hmph.
Be careful.
This isn't an ordinary
Ice Style.
[gasping]
What is this?
Well done, Ryogi!
[struggling]
Hurts so much.
No, stop!
Please stop!
Calm down, Ryogi.
Relax.
You look terrible right now.
[exhaling]
[smirking]
Damn it.
What do we do, Boruto?
Uh!
Hey, did you hear me,
Boruto?
You're that guy!
Huh?!
[grunting]
How did you get in here?
What do you think
you're doing?!
[grunting]
What's gotten into you,
Boruto?!
[grunting]
Tell me where
you put Shikadai!
[grunting]
Is he caught in a genjutsu?
[gasping]
I get it.
The mirror!
[grunting]
[landing]
No way in hell
I'm gonna stand around
and get stuffed into a mold
that's too tight!
I'm sorry.
I just got a little confused.
[lightly gasping]
Hmm.
Did you get that from
the black‐haired kid?
[gasping]
I see how it is
between you two.
I don't like what
you're implying.
That guy doesn't mean
anything at all to me!
Uh?
[gasping]
Then it won't be a problem
for you to prove it,
by getting rid of that brat.
I'm gonna go up front
and check on things.
I understand, sir.
Hold on.
Let me take a look
at your wound.
We're gonna need to
patch you up quickly.
All right.
[grunting]
You need to
calm down, Boruto!
[fighting]
[grunting]
A Shadow Clone?!
Now that was
a really close call.
[straining]
Damn it, let me go!
Tell me who the hell you are!
Oh, man.
Just how weak
are you to genjutsu?
Release!
Shikadai?
Was I by any chance just
controlled by a genjutsu?
It certainly seems that way.
I see.
If you can touch
and pass chakra through
the affected person...
you can cancel a genjutsu.
When I was little,
Mirai constantly used me for
her own experiments.
And she made real sure
I knew how to release
a genjutsu.
Ooooooh!
What's the big idea?!
That really hurt!
Shut up.
Just needed to even the score.
Boss...
Once we get over
that mountain,
we'll be in safe range.
Yeah.
You're right.
[struggling]
Why?
You think maybe Ryogi
is also being controlled
by a genjutsu?
There's a high possibility
of that.
We can't get involved even if
we stumble onto something.
We have to report it
to someone ranked
chunin or higher.
That's standard practice
for us genin, right?
Huh?
Why say that now?
You should know...
It's okay if you decide
not to stick around
with this good‐for‐nothing
rule breaker.
[chuckling]
Shikadai, you always
go by the book
and avoid getting involved.
Yet, here you are sticking
your nose into something
that's bound to become
a real drag.
Come on! You know I can't
turn down something this fun!
Heh.
You're crazy,
you know that?
Okay!
I'm gonna punch Ryogi, next.
Might knock some sense
into him!
I'll owe you one after this.
Next time they come out
with a new burger,
it's on you.
Don't get too carried away.
Oh, man.
It's just Ryogi in there.
You think the boss
escaped already?
I didn't sense
the Thunder Train
slowing down.
My guess is...
he's still gotta be on board.
I thought you wanted us
to stop Ryogi?
If we're right and
he's under a genjutsu,
then we've got to get
his boss first.
‐ Huh!
I won't let you go.
Boruto, go on ahead!
And watch out for any mirrors!
I got this one!
Hold it!
[grunting]
[straining]
I'm the only opponent
you've got now!
Do your job and take care of
those pests back there, Ryogi.
Huh?
Let go of that lever!
[snarling]
He's using you.
And once you've served
your purpose,
he'll cast you aside.
I'm sure you've
already figured
that much out yourself.
Even if you're right,
it's still my responsibility
to protect him.
You like living like that?
Aren't you tired of
this life, yet?
I know.
How about we go back
to that bench
and play some shogi!
[wincing]
I'm just...
a pawn.
The pawn always protects
the King.
Wha‐‐?
What are you saying?
I owe him for saving me.
The only way to repay him
is with my life!
[grunting]
[lightly gasping]
Ryogi...
What are you doing here?!
[gasping]
You were still alive.
How dare you?
How dare you kill
my mom and dad!
[struggling]
Now hold on there.
The two of us should
have a conversation
and talk this out.
That sounds good.
You can tell me everything
back at the village.
How about teaming up
with me instead?
There'll be no end of buyers
for what I've got.
If we're smart
about selling it,
we'll both be
ridiculously rich.
You would disgust
any noble thief.
Okay then, fine.
I suppose I lose.
So you just want
this stuff back, right?
[straining]
Damn it!
[grunting]
Boruto!
I'm sorry,
I messed up.
[gasping]
Damn it!
You almost got me,
you little brats!
Dad...
Mom...
I'm so sorry I couldn't
protect you back then.
Ryogi!
You're being manipulated!
You're absolutely right!
Once I rewrote
his childhood memories,
he became my pawn!
And then he was willing to do
anything in the world for me!
[laughing]
[lightly grunting]
Stop it, Ryogi!
If you use too much chakra,
you're going to tear
yourself apart!
Now what?
I can't even get
close enough to touch him.
Ryogi. Do you remember what
happened when we first met?
You showed up, out of nowhere,
and interrupted me.
Yet you still put up walls
around yourself.
Never letting anyone
get close to you
is just a bad habit, Ryogi!
Heh. I'm the last person
who should talk about that.
[wincing]
Shut up.
Just shut up!
[grunting]
[wincing]
Shikadai!
You should take
a look at yourself.
You're turning into a monster.
Is that really the kinda
figure you want to be?
I'm a...
a pawn!
[struggling]
Boruto!
You're in a tough spot.
So what now?
I'll strike a deal with you
for a juice, the new burger,
and some fries, too!
[chuckling]
That sounds like
a real bargain!
Ryogi!
I am...
You are not!
...a sacrificial pawn!
You are not
a sacrificial pawn!
[gasping for air]
Release!
[quietly crying]
I...
Heh.
Saying I'll be a pawn
sounded so cool at the time.
It was all to avenge
my parents.
What a joke, huh?
[quietly crying]
I have nothing left now.
I gripe a lot.
I complain about everything
being a drag,
even thought I've spent
my whole life
in this peaceful village.
I've never had it bad.
I can't imagine your past,
or understand
how tough it was.
I don't have a clue
about that.
But it's gonna work out!
What does that mean?
Do you really know things
are gonna work out, Shikadai?
[chuckling]
Not really.
It's just...
I think things'll work out.
Mm.
Didn't I tell you?
The thing about pawns...
is you decide what they are...
and then anything is possible.
Damn it!
He was right in our gasp
and he still got away.
It's all over, then?
[gasping]
Huh?
What was that?
And now, I can say goodbye
to a life of
small‐time robbery.
I've got a one‐way ticket
to all the luxury I want.
To the good life!
[laughing]
Huh?
[grunting]
Are you the‐‐?
Aw, come on!
Is it really over?
Oooh!
Thank you, Young Lord,
for bringing it back!
Aw, come on,
you don't have to cry about it
just because
I got it back for you.
Oh, I'm not crying about that.
I'm just overwhelmed
because society
finally acknowledged that
this scientific ninja tool
is so valuable,
it's worth trying to steal!
'Kay...
What is it anyway?
What's the scientific
ninja tool do?
I'll tell you.
This is a new power
that has the potential
to change history.
Hmm?
Young Lord...
This tool was developed
to be used by
exceptional young shinobi
like yourself.
Whaddya mean?
What's up?
You waiting for him
again today?
Yeah, kinda.
When does Ryogi get out?
How long will he be
stuck in there?
Who knows?
Looks like we've seen
the end of the Byakuya Gang.
That's true.
Seems like Lord Seventh
took care of it himself.
Yeah.
It sure seems like it.
It's not right.
If he was planning
to swoop in,
he should've let us know.
Don't trash talk him.
In the end,
Lord Seventh was the one
who made everything right.
They were too much to handle
for you and me.
[groaning]
Missions can be
pretty hard, huh?
More than I expected.
No kidding.
But little by little,
we'll get better at them
over time.
Even though it's a drag.
We'll figure it out one day...
the both of us will.
And Ryogi will, too.
Seems like you've already
changed a little yourself.
[scoffing]
So? When do I get
my free burger?
Oh yeah...
I forgot all about that.
What?!
What a drag.
(DENKI) You have to be
recommended
by the sensei
in charge of your team
to be able to participate
in the Chunin Exams, right?
(IWABE)
But we weren't able to help
with the Byakuya Gang
incident one bit!
At this rate, we won't ever
get recommended!
(METAL) If we do not
get to take the exam,
we will end up being
called Team Repeater!
(IWABE) Next time on Boruto:
Naruto Next Generations:
"The Genin Documentary"
There's no way in hell
I'm gonna repeat
this year again, dammit!